# Introduction

Everything can change in an instant. When the doctor told me I had a mass in my large intestine, I felt an ice-cold tingle run through me. We didn't know what it was at that point, but from that moment, my whole world seemed to pivot around me.

Everyone tells you not to worry, and not to speculate. There is no point in worrying about things you can't change, but changing something is not the same as affecting it; a little worry, and some speculation (or as I call it, preparation) can provide the fire to motivate. I had a lot of time to research and think about what was happening to me, and I reckoned there was a 50/50 chance on a tumor and bowel cancer, or a nasty inflammatory disease. Thinking about what this might mean gave me the impetus to chase the next appointment, and get things moving. Nearly two weeks later, when a tumor and lesion appeared on the screen during my colonoscopy, I didn't really feel anything. At least I knew the nature of the beast. A little bit of speculation had prepared me for what was coming. 

In two weeks, that had shifted everything. Thoughts about my career and aspirations, my frustrations, all flew out of the window to be replaced by a crushing concern for Jess, Arthur, and Ivy.I'd find myself crying in the mirror, not for myself, but at the thoughts that there might be some day when they need me, and I am no longer here. Dwelling on this can only lead to despair. Something for which I have never had time instead comment I had the idea of trying to capture something of who I am in words. Of course it won't be the same, but I hope that if the day comes when I am no longer here, that my words will provide some echo of wisdom and comfort.

Early childhood

Let's start at the beginning; or at least the beginning as I remember it. My earliest memory was getting ready for bed the evening before my fourth birthday. I can perhaps remember things from earlier, but it's the pinning of this memory to my birthday that has made it stick. I grew up in a very happy House, and I vividly remember my mum helping me into my pajamas in the small bedroom at the back of 49 Furze Platt Road. That was my room until I turned 11, and moved up to secondary school. I don't really remember my birthday, but the excitement and anticipation are still Vivid feelings.

I expect most people look back on their childhoods with rose tinted glasses, but I really do remember it as an idyllic time. I was, I think, a good boy, and I didn't get in trouble very often. But,  even good little boys have their moments...

I remember biting my brother John -  I have no memory of why, and can only speculate that he wouldn't let me play with something -  and then being so petrified of being told off that I hid under my bed! I suspect I was only under there for a few minutes, but it felt like I hid there for hours, worrying all the time about the telling off to come. I don't remember the telling off, or even whether I was told off, which just goes to show that the event is rarely as bad as the anticipation and worry about a thing.

I remember being sent to the Headmistress at Infant School, for throwing a stone at Michael Butler. I got him square between the eyes, but in fairness, he'd been chasing me around the Silver Birch trees in the school courtyard, trying to kick me, so I felt this was swift justice! I think the Headmistress secretly saw it my way too, which goes to show that being good (most of the time) gives you some leeway when you need it!

A few rare misdemeanors followed in Junior School, but by and large, my friends and I were all well-behaved, and seldom the ones who started the trouble

I was very fortunate that my two best friends throughout infant and Junior School lived close by. Roland, around the corner in Camden Road, and Spencer, in the house opposite for stop I had many other friends, but the 3 of us - Roland, Spencer, and I, would play together the most. We had a spot, not far after the turning into the top of Camden Road, where we would stop most days and ask our mothers if we could play at each other's houses after school. There must have been times when we were told no, but it seems like every time we asked at our magic spot, the answer was yes!

Roland lived in a semi-detached house with his parents and his younger sister Helen. His was the first house we passed on the walk home from school and it was invariably where we would stop to play. I remember the first time I saw the Treehouse of the bottom of the garden and falling in love with the place we spent all the time we could outside playing in the driveway that ran between Roland's house and the often empty house next door, in the garden, on the climbing frame or in the treehouse. It wasn't a particularly big garden, and it was dominated by an old concrete shed, with a corrugated iron roof that ran down one side. Access to the roof of the shed could be gained by climbing on a water but hidden from view of adults in the house from their Connor a short scary and the drop got you into The Empty Garden Next Door. 1 day, Roland introduced me to his Spud gum-a small red gun that you could push into a potato, forming a small Spud palette that could then be fired for stop Spencer and I instantly wanted our own and the eventually we were obliged to with visits and toy master in maidenhead. The spot guns, followed later by cap guns that looks like World War Two lugers, spawns the game "ten second dead".

The rules were simple one person would count to 10, while everyone ran and hid, then the person who was it would start hunting people down with their spud gun. This quickly became a free-for-all, with the kids shouting "Bang! 10 second dead!" at an opponent, gaining the chance to run, whilst their opponents threw themselves to the floor and pretended to be dead for 10 seconds.

Spencer has a somewhat larger house with a big Garden. The main  of interest there was the rope ladder up the large mature Tree near the end of their Garden. It took me a long time to master that ladder, but once I had it I was up and down its constantly.

We grew up together, pulling in younger siblings bracket Spencer has three younger brothers bracket to our games and getting on famously for stop we would often spent weekends and holidays at each other's houses,  parents taking turns that's watching us and entertaining Us. As we got older and learned to ride bikes, my dad would often take us on Long rides to cook and Dean-always stopping at the Jolly Farmer for a lemonade and a packet of crisps-and as we got older still, we would write ourselves over the fields up the brick Helms to firmly, where a forested paradise of ramps and tracks existed.The

So many of the things I love have roots in that time: being outdoors, hiking and camping were all introduced to me as a Cub Scout (though nurtured fully much later). My love of model building and planes (I always wanted to be a pilot, until I wanted to be a writer). most of all, my love of a good Adventure. There are numerous Tales I could tell from my Early Childhood, but I will only spell out the ones that really left an impression on me in the following Pages.

Big Impressions from early days

I would imagine that the first day of school is a big memory for many common but I barely remember it at all. My main memory from that time was the orientation session a few weeks before. Until that point I had always been with family. I had the Good Fortune to go to the nursery school run by my name, and have always managed to scrounge an extra biscuit and snack time because of it. My granddad would pick me up at lunch time. Always bringing me a quality Street fudge finger, and would then take me home. So school was entirely new and exciting. I think my mum came to the orientation session common because my main memory was running out to play open parents with Roland close pairing, and then walking in the wrong door when it was time to go back in here. I ran into a few different classrooms in a panic, before finding mum in the hall. After that my first real day at school was a piece of cake.

One weekend when I was a junior School Conn I was on a bike ride with Dad and John. We were coming back down the Stony path from the brick Hilton's towards Canon Court Road. The wind was in my hair and I was pedaling downhill. It was obviously exhilarating in enough that I thought I could fly, because I decided to take both hands off my handlebars!  Second's later, my front wheel caught a stone and I crashed to the ground Comer splitting my knee White open. There were tears, and incredulous shaking of heads from my parents open pairing something I've since done more than a few times with Arthur and Ivy clothes (, and a trip to A and E where a nurse super glued me back together. It's wouldn't be the last time I'd end up in hospital because of misadventure on my bike, but it was the first time that I can remember that I realized how quickly things can go wrong. I didn't know it at the time, but it's probably contributed a lot to me paying more attention later in life. The paint went quite quickly, but I remember the inconvenience of the bandage, preventing me from needing to play at school. Some lessons have to be learned the hard way, I guess!

That's around the same age, I was a keen Cub Scout. Cubs was a bit different in those days; we would often spend entire evenings playing far-ranging wide games with minimal supervision. One evening, a group of us were driven to Long Ridge in a minibus, dropped off, and told to find our way to mowers Meadow (our local Cub Campground). Thinking about this now, I can't believe that the scouting Association would have endorsed this common even in the late 80s/early 90s. Having seen some of the amazing Cup groups around the corner and hearing stories from friends who want went to other Cup groups, I suspect ours (Stewart would pack) was just run by lazy and clueless leaders. Despite this, on The Late Summers evening, we were abandoned at Long Ridge. This seemed like a great adventure. By this time, I was well familiarized with the countryside for many miles around maidenhead, she mainly to the long bike rides I would go on with Dad. I said in the land around Winter Hill and cookham well. Within a few minutes of being dropped off, I had oriented myself, and I and a few of the other Sixers led the way. We were soon on familiar ground, and we quickly determined that we could take the road up to Winter Hill, cuts down through cock Marsh, along the river to the pound in cookham, and from there beeline a path along, or close to, the Switchback back towards mowers Meadow. It felt very grown up to be out on our own, and was a great adventure for the most part. Unfortunately, it was an evening that would end badly

We were almost back at mowers Meadow, when someone suggested a shortcut across a field. There was a footpath so anyone not one I had taken before, but perfectly sensible. As we crossed the fields a group of teenagers 4 of them, probably no more than 3 years older than us Commerce took umbrage with our shortcut, and came screaming across the field towards us. Most of the group of cubs ran. For some reason neither I nor Roland did. I'd like to think I was being heroic, and there's neither of us wanted to leave the other to face the teenage Menace, but I suspect we were just stunned. For whatever reason Connor the teenagers slowed as they approached the 2 of us but it's left us alone. After a pause they took off after the running Cubs, throwing one in a muddy puddle, punching another, and picking up one Unfortunate Soul by the arms and legs before repeatedly bashing him against the tree Motors and I only found this out later of course; once the teenagers have passed we scored this through the hedgerows and found the lane to mowers. Proving that the Pack Leaders were terrible Connor we actually walked around a corner to find the minibus with the rest of the battered Cubs in driving along a lane towards us. The leaders obviously thought they had everyone and were driving home! To this day, I have no idea why the teenagers left us alone. I can look quite angry without meaning to at times common so perhaps I just looks like I should be left alone, or perhaps they just wanted the sport chasing scared Cubs.

There were some concern as what had happened when I got home. My vaguely remember my brother driving off to see if he could find the kids. The same useless leaders ran the Scout group; shortly after moving up to scout I decided I'd had enough of it and I left the scouting movement for good.

Though I did not stood my ground on purpose, I did learn that not running is usually a better option. Certainly, sticking together and facing things as a team is almost always a good idea.

My nanny and Grandad were hugely important in my early years. Not only did my nanny run the nursery school that I went to, but she would also look after me through much of the school holidays during my time at infant and genius School. I would be dropped off at their house with my toys and favorite games and was usually spend the morning playing inside, or in their long Garden.  I don't have a single specific memory of the garden that's when I think of it and bathed in some lights and running up and down, or playing croquet and there is always some orange barley squash in a cut glass tumbler on the garden table. I loved being around there.

He was usually busy in the morning, invariably preparing a huge lunch, replete with at least 2 or 3 puddings. However, after lunch she replied board games with me for hours and hours. Some of my earliest memories of playing games are sitting at the fold down wooden table in their front room, playing Ludo (one of nannies favorites), snakes and ladders, drafts, and later Yahtzee!, backgammon and Monopoly (definitely not one of nannies favorites!) I think it is no wonder that I still love board games, or in fact any type of Gaming.

My granddad was a quiet, but very kind man. Between slipping the custard creams, dairy milk, or chunks of fudge open parrot his favorite clothes parrot he was pulled my socks off, usually with me in fits of Giggles. He was quite deaf Comer especially in later years which didn't always make talking to him easy, but he has a twinkle in his eye, and was certainly not withdrawal or stir in any way. It's always a muse to me that's Nanny and Grandad would sit in different rooms. Granddad common in his swinging armchair in front of the 14 inch television in the front room (usually booming out at 100% volume! Close pairing and nanny in the back room watching television comment often with a puzzle on a huge board on the go.)

My granddad was Indian; I didn't know if this had anything to do with nannies skill at cooking Curry, but occasionally me open parrot meaning my family, plus Auntie Mary and all my cousins) was go round for the most amazing Curry feasts.

My Grandma and Granddad open parrot on my dad's side closed pairing, were completely different. Granddad's Ken was a kind man, but he died when I was 10 or 11, so I don't feel like I really knew him. He bought me my first pen knife and but always hide a pound coin for me in the hinge of their front gate. Grand smile ripping to him was a strange lady. I always got on well with her but she wasn't very nice to some of them the rest of the family including my brother) so I was always a bit wary of her. She came across as taking herself a bit too seriously unfortunately Connor I think she was an alcoholic. There was always a Strongbow cider or red wine on the go. On the rare occasion we ate Brown food would be forgotten for drink. I once found her trying to break up a frozen chili con carne with a fork a few minutes before we would do to eat. It tasted awful. My cousin Christopher obviously thought so too because he loudly announced "this isn't chili, it's poo!". I don't think Grandma appreciated this.

 Ground Bar was also a truly terrible driver. She Wrote off several cars. In later years comment just before she gave up her keys Connor I was home alone after seniors School. The phone rang Connor and a man from maidenhead Council car parks Tommy my mother had been in accident as one of the multi-story car parks in town here this was before mobile phones, so I thought I should get down to the car park to help mum. I raced down on my bike here I should probably be slightly ashamed that I was released to see Grandma's car completely total. She lost control on the spiral ramp Connor and driven her car into the wall! The man at the car park at obviously thought I was my dad!
 
 Music was an important part of my early years my brother John plays the violin so naturally when the opportunity arose to begin lessons I wanted to play two I was about 8 years old when I started my teacher Chris Smith was a patient's teacher unfortunately Mr Smith gave up teaching less than a year after I began (nothing to do with my playing I'm sure) he was replaced by a South African lady called Patricia Robinson Mrs Robinson had a very different style I think she wanted every child she taught to be a virtuoso violin player if you've ever heard a player of less than grades 3 on the violin you will know that it is not an easy instrument to learn nor is it particularly rewarding (at first) and unless you enjoy the sound of cats dying
 In addition to the violin I did a music class after school on Wednesdays (Theory and some playing) so I got double doses of Mrs Robinson within a year of taking over lessons Mrs Robinson had seen off the whole class except for me and my friend Jim (who didn't last much longer) as the years went by fewer people took up the violin under Mrs Robinson until I was left 1 or 2 grades ahead of anyone else in my school I started on Saturday morning Orchestra class at East Berkshire Music Center in Windsor there I met Jonathan Keane who was the same age in great as me but who went to court house (and later all good close parents School Johnston and I were good friends and we suffered the Roth of Mrs Robinson together you like
 
 She was very strict and confrontational I was only playing because my brother did (at least at first close and I was never much interested in practicing nevertheless I kept playing throughout senior school right up until I was 18 in the end I think I only played because almost everyone else at my school had quit and I didn't want the Mrs Robinson to win I remember Mrs Robinson telling me I would fail my grade 3 exam I only dropped 3% and got a distinction maybe she was using reverse psychology but I think I actually performed better just the spider eventually even Jonathan stopped playing and I stopped playing on a Saturday so I could work part-time So I entered six for my school music teacher (Mrs Armstrong close parents pulled me over to one side to tell me that Mrs Robinson would no longer be teaching me because everyone else in the school had quit after nearly 10 years I won!
 
 The new teacher was very nice collar but I only stuck at it for about 6 months more I finding concert was my best I played Paco Bell's canon with Susie massive and recent transfer from Newlands girls school on second violin and her father on viola replaced because we enjoyed playing and performed really well if Mrs Robinson had taken a more relaxed approach I wonder if I would have stuck it out and played better or quit sooner it taught me a thing or two about how not to teach but most of all it's cemented the fact that I can be inordinately stubborn about doing or not doing things on my terms it's probably hasn't made me the easiest person to teach or parents sorry Mom and Dad but it's also been instrumental in every one of my achievements so it's perhaps not something to apologize too much for
 
 
 holidays early years
 
  I loved school but I loved to the holidays far more some of my earliest memories are of the long build-up to Christmas at school culminating in the school Christmas Fair this was usually a weekend and an opportunity to meet with friends Roland Spencer but also Ryan Omar Peter Newton and a host of others at the school but without the rules and constrictions of lessons to stop our play there is something so exciting about Christmas as a child I thought I'd lost the feeling as I got older only to find his game with Arthur and Ivy maybe kids just emanated I would always get excited on the run-up to the summer holidays too if I close my eyes I can feel the heat on the school Playing Fields tasted the dust and smell the grass break and lunch times playing Manhunt around the entire school just seemed to go on forever
  
  I've already discussed some of the things I would do in the holidays either playing with Roland and Spencer or going to my Nan's house but the summer holiday was also a chance to go away as a family fuel line
  We went to a few places all in the UK when I was young we went to Yorkshire spotted with peers Jeanette Neil and Miranda Friends of the family I remember the castle ruins in the town spooky and the manure piled high in the cowshed on the farm we stayed on there are two major events that I think are from that holiday or perhaps it was two trips
   
   First I remember going on a day out as usual peers and Jeanette had taken John and Miranda had come with us as we drove along in the old Mark 2 Ford Escort ghia  rhubarb color the engine blew up in a cloud of smoke! I remember it's happening but not much else I'm sure it was a very expensive issue to fix though
   
   The second event occurred on the farm the farm had invited the kids to help at milking time the others were all much older than me and bigger too I struggled to wage through the calming in my little Wellington Boots suddenly a cow moved towards me I tend to run my feet stuck and I went face down in the menu I remember John and Neil laughing and I'm sure I found it funny too I definitely got the last laugh though Miranda took me back to the house to get cleaned up she asked me which was my flannel in the bathroom where upon I pointed a John's like he used it to clean off the cow poo... I was cunning, even back then! 
   
   another very early holiday memory comes from a trip to the Isle of Wight we were traveling along an a-road when a rock came through our windscreen I don't know for sure but I've always assumed it was thrown by 1 of the bikers on the islands that week I remember the windscreen completely shattering and Sheltering down on the back seat out of the Wind on the same trip we walked into a restaurant as someone had let off tear gas not an auspicious start in the end it was a great holiday I recall beaches with pink sand digging for hours to make tunnels to drive cars through and playing with John Neal and Miranda this was all the holiday when I was bought a toy Ferry completed the little red and a little blue car dad was playing with me in the shallowsWhen a wave capsized the ferry which standard put down and I lost one of the cars I was devastated it was all dance false of course and I reminded him of it many times over the years
    
   When I was slightly over mum dad John and I spent several summer holidays in Saint Stephen a sleepy Cornish Village innocent Austell my great aunt Brenda just Auntie Brenda to us lift in a higgledy-piggledy Stone House in the village Auntie Brenda was a king Rambler and Cornish native so she all the very best places to go whether we wanted magical beaches on the south coast surf on the North Coast or adventurous hunting crossbow I've been lucky enough to travel to some very special places but these holidays topped everything else I've ever done call is a beautiful place if you've got the imagination for it the Old Stone Villages sandy beaches Rocky coves and brooding tors seem ripe with potential for magic and adventure in later years mum dad and I went to Cornwall without John it was on one of these trips that we hired body boards at holywell Bay the beach had huge sound of Dunes behind it and was quite unlike the calm golden beaches of the south coast this is my first introduction to proper waves and I was immediately hooked dad a nice bent most of the day in the sea at 1 point we've got just be on the way breaks where a current started dragging me out to sea a lifeguard paddled out to check on us it was hard work but eventually we managed to paddle back in evil United that was a constant companion on our Cornish all of these with minimal complaints he would allow himself to be tracked on seemingly endless exploration of rock pools I was rarely still on these holidays even today I can't spend longer than 10 minutes on a beach without starting to build a sandcastle! I always slept so well in the cosy bedroom opposite the bathroom at Auntie Brenda's and then I would rise early for Hogs pudding and another adventure!
    
   The summer of 1990 was a special holiday the whole family including my Auntie Mary went abroad for the first time there is nothing quite like the excitement of a long journey modern air travel slightly removes this but I've always loved a big journey by Road
    
   We were going to the Dordogne. I was nine and my knowledge of geography was limited but I knew France was big and the Beaver would have to travel a very long way by car I vividly remember getting up early and piling into the car the roads were empty sunrise or still to come so there was that delicious early morning chill. We drove around to court house Road to pick up Auntie Mary and then set off for Portsmouth. We were driving our rhubarb colours mark 2 Ford Escort Gear. Seats were beige fabric with some leather trim on the doors. I remember the parcel shelf was a great big ski ramp of a thing. Mum was driving that was navigating and John Mary and ice squeezed into the back. The youngest I was sandwiched in the middle. It's staggering to think that we drove all that way without seat belts in the back, it just goes to show how things progress!
   
   It was still barely light when we were stopped at a police checkpoint. A dangerous prisoner had escaped from Broadmoor and as the police were warning people not to pick up Hitchhikers this was hilarious because with the boot full the roof rack loaded and the 5 of us jammed like sardines in the car you'd have had a job slipping a feather in the car let alone a deranged prisoner. 
   
   The ferry from Portsmouth was very exciting. I had been on a ferry before but never out of size of land. We took the Portsmouth to Khan route which took several hours. We even had a cabin with bumps but with all the excitement and with the Sun now risen we didn't stay there long.
   
   I don't remember much of that drive through France except long roads lines with Cyprus trees. I was really into * comics and found the idea that some of the roads were originally Roman very exciting. It was squashed and uncomfortable in the back of the car so I spent most of the journey reading my Comics and listening to diet straight. To this day so far away takes me straight back to that trip.
   
   After a 2-day journey involving and stop over in the lower Valley and multiple circuits of Lamont we arrived in La parody. We were euro camping. The site was beautiful. The holiday passed in a blur of swimming cycling canoeing my idea of paradise. I loved every second of it we all did leading to a repeats trip in 1991. It was 11 years before I went to Broad again little design I know then what Incredible Adventures were to come!
   
   Senior school years
   
   My final year at genius school was great. I did my work quickly and well enough that my teacher afforded me in a small group of my friends great freedoms. We would be given permission to put on skits in assembly and provided the work was done this often meant time to prepare in the courtyard.
   
   The transition to senior school was a big one in many ways. Some of my friends went to different schools. Piece and Newton a kid I always got on so well with when to desperate. Claire read my girlfriend since year 5 when to Newlands the all girl school. There was no such thing as mobile phones back then and I was still a fairly shy and awkward boy so in my mind at least moving schools effectively ended these friendships. Some adults are like this too. Life has many phases and although some friendships feel like they'll last forever there are very few that survived without the effort of both parties to keep in touch. If you have a friend that makes the effort to check in with you hold on to them make the effort back because they are like going to Stars they will remind you who you are provide warmth and comfort when you need it and challenge your course when you step astray. Friends like that will show you the way home.
   
   Up the transition to senior school was big at home too. It coincided with John leaving home to go to Exeter University. At the time this month that I got a bigger bedroom although it was really more profound than that. I was now the only child in the house. I think that I was probably the easier child to parent in my younger years but my parents would soon meet my stroppy hormone Alter Ego Kevin!
   
   John had always seemed like something of a star pupil but first black senior School. He finished 6th form in the summer of 1992 and I started year 7 in the September. Although we didn't overlap I always felt there was some kind of competition. I wanted to be the best in whatever class I did although I was never particularly interested in putting in the effort!
   
   I loved senior school from the first day. It was big we had a wide range of lessons and there were new faces mingled with the old. I was still very much best friends with Roland and Spencer. We would walk to school together every day. However I made new friends too. It was only in year seven that I first met Tobi Bellmore we got on well but I would say it was only after 2 to 3 years the 3 became better for friends mostly through a mutual love of mountain biking something that Toby was more skilled at the night
   
   Today Toby remains one of my oldest and certainly one of the best people I've ever known. Roland Spencer and I drifted apart as we progress through year 8 and 9. We never fell out but after I gave up Scouts and all through the musical extra-curricular activities I did they're just seemed less time. That's not to say there weren't some notable events around that time.
   
   Timber town
   
   I suspect most kids think that they're Hometown is a dull Backwater that there is always more going on elsewhere of course if you compare any one place against everywhere else it's always going to be that way.  I felt the same maidenhead is a nice town but unremarkable and dull compared to almost everywhere near it there is Windsor with its historic Center and Great Park Up reading with its City Center and even Slough notorious for its ugliness and social issues at least when I was a child against this competition maidenhead seemed stationery.
   
   Yet every now and again something different would come along. Timber town was one of these things. For a few days in the summer holiday a patch of Northtown Mall would be invaded by children and adult volunteers who would turn a mountain of wood donated by local businesses in to a town. The first time I went I may have still been a Junior School. The theme was the Wild West. On the first day my group built a target range with its own Hut. On the second day we painted it. On the third day Timber Town came alive. Everyone was in fancy dress and we all played. There were buildings dedicated to games of various kinds are shooting range a coconut shy and even a gold panning station after lunch the children were parade through the town in fancy dress whilst the fire service ripped it all down. On returning to the area we were greeted by the largest bomb fire I have ever seen. I remember the first year I went because I went across word prize a family train ticket anywhere on the network rail. I invited Rowland and Spencer and we used it to travel to Portsmouth where we saw the Mary Rose and HMS Victory and another great adventure.
   
   The second year of Timber town was very different. I was odd enough to be a proper helper. Spencer his brother Barnaby and I helped their dad kneel to build a scale down version of Blackpool Tower we then used hay bales and a Taft to make a pool and Rouse slide off the tower into the pool as you can imagine our construction had the biggest cue on the third day. during construction of the tower late on the second day that Spencer and Barnaby got into an argument Spencer although the oldest of four was the gentlest of the brothers Barnaby closest to us in age was always smaller was a practical thinker and was great fun however he had a tendency to lose his Rag and could be a bit destructive especially when his father gave him a telling off I remember with delight I might add a shame idly the awkward drive home where Barnaby ripped up and tuned the AA Atlas in the back of the car in protest at his treatment he got another telling off as we pulled onto the drive whereupon he called his father a word typically considered the rudest in the English language. I crossed the road and entered our front door trying not to laugh obviously.
   
   I've been in a rage on many occasions but I think it's worth remembering that it's always ridiculous to outsiders. We should all also beware the harsh truths spoken in Anger by a wronged child!
   
    Cock Marsh
    
    Cock Mash is a very pretty area of National Trust between cookham and Winter Hill part of it is an extension of Winter Hill the Steep grassy gradient facing Northwest towards High Wycombe
    
    By my early senior school years I was heading out on my bike on my own or with friends we would rise for hours taking in the ramps at Fernley or shooting across cock march to cook them and home by the Switchback on this particular day in April I had spent the morning building a paper mache volcano for geography I was in year 9 so I think it was 1995 the weather that day was weird son and hail seemed to dominate by equal measures as the sun came out after lunch TV with my been building volcanoes and I decided to take a ride out Tobey was a far better mounted by the way but I have always been blessed with an ability to ignore fear and push myself that day I took it too far.
    
    We headed for cock march to be on his gray and blue Carrera and I was on my brand new black saracen. Feeling the need for adrenaline we pushed our bikes to the top of cock Marsh. Toby went first and nailed the Speedy descent. Without thinking too hard about it I went second and found myself hurtling down the hill that enormous speed I was on the verge of controlling it until I got some are as a small unseen bump a few feet from the long flat Mound at the bottom my front wheel turned in flight and I landed with a crash my wheel buckles like a pringle the force of the Collision bent my handlebars and frame and I shot through the air I have no memory of the impact to this day it's the only time I've ever been knocked out.
    
    Here I went probably only moments later a sharp pain in my shoulder suggested I'd done something nasty my helmet was in pieces always always wear one! And the lens had come out of my glasses and cut my face.
    
    I got an ambulance right to Wixom Park I had broken my collarbone which was very painful worst of all my new bike was a write off.
    
    I was due to go with surfing at the UK essay about 2 months later this looked touching go for a while but I healed quickly and made it I'd like to say I learned from the incident I didn't try going down cock Marshal again but it didn't entirely shake my enthusiasm for risky endeavours!
    
    The United Kingdom sailing Academy the UK essay was based in cows on the Isle of Wight I always loved the water and found my way to watersports  in baby steps first I had learned to kayak during the summer holidays when my friend Spencer and his brother Barnaby had told me about a canoe school they attended on the Thames at Hurley I asked my mum and dad if I could do it and they signed me up for a week I remember going kayaking every morning and inevitably ended up jumping in from the rope swing down river from Hurley then we were going back to Spencer's and build elaborate sets for playing Warhammer 40k and out of Lego or after noon.
    
    I was also introduced to sailing through Spencer his father was a keen sailor and the family owned a topper and a gp-14 that they sailed 1 of the local Lakefield gravel pits I remember going out on the lake with Spencer and instantly falling in love with sailing
    
    I think it was probably spent at the top of me about UK essay. Jeff fagen's who taught art and geography as well as being one of the heads of upper school ran a weekend trip and the week long trip to uksa in the spring half term I went twice first on a weekend trip in 1995 and then a second time for a week in 1996. I always like trying new things so I didn't give a second thought to devoting both trips to learning windsurfing.
    
    Wind surfing is more difficult than sailing or canoeing it requires all the awareness of the wind direction needed in sailing the core strength needed for canoeing but adds the need to balance on a small board
    
    I knew I'd need a few days to get it so I went all in  and spent 100% of both trips focused on it I was the only one who did this so I actually spent most of the time learning in a very small group or on my own I've always preferred this in many ways I enjoy the camaraderie of doing things in a group but when I really want to learn something nothing beats putting the Graft in on your own.
    
    I remember the beach well and the exhilaration the first time I tacked out and then turned for a long run along the shores speed with the sea spray shredding past me it was pure joy there is something about solo Sports the pitting of yourself against nature that I fell in love with their and then it follows me quite naturally into my love of rock climbing hiking and played a major influencing role in the career I follow later
    
 I'd be lying if I didn't admit that I'm also a show of back then in the early to mid-90s I had become fully aware of girls more of that later and it hasn't escaped my notice that it would be very cool to know how to win surf before some of the group joins the class towards the end of the week I was right it was very cool one of the girls Jenny Payne later became my first proper girlfriend so we can chalk that up as a win for graft and Showmanship!
 
  My other thing outdoors and Adventure was really nurtured and Unleashed through school by year 89 I had an up Scouts but through the school I was introduced first to win surfing and later to rock climbing I started out rock climbing because I had gravitated slowly towards a group of friends that enjoyed the same kind of sports as I gym Thursday who I had once played violin with was a scout and later Venture Scout who was and is a king climber James Hood who I had known since infant school and Andy Jones who I got to know first three music but who was the first of us to go climbing and who spread the bug to the rest of us
  
   to explain how we all gravitated towards each other requires a shorter side
   
 Mrs Robinson had seen off so many string players that I started gs7 I was instantly the most senior in great violinist in the school more talented players joined the school in later years but to start with I was quite alone the lovely head of Music Celia Armstrong not wanting me to miss out invited me to join the school wind band this was the biggest group in the school comprising some excellent musicians from all years as far as I am aware I am still the only violin to play in a band for wind instruments I sat at the front and played the parts usually reserved for the flutes clarinets or occasionally oboe Andy Jones was a clarinet player he was quick to cause mischief they rarely getting in trouble and could be a classic wind-up Merchant during one dress rehearsal for a concert hours before the evening performance I handed in my violin and took his clarinet for a laugh and he turns the wooden tuning peg and promptly snapped one of my violin strings  necessitating a Mad Dash to find a new one just hours before we played
 
  we sing became friends and slowly but surely our friendship group got drank into the orbit of the Duke of Edinburgh scheme I always seem to have so much going on that I joined slightly after Andy James and Jim but senior enough I was partaking in various Heights camping trips and volunteering opportunities through the school rock climbing was introduced to me at this time as a skill we could learn we would all meet on a Wednesday night at Cox Green community center and that's where I learned to climb we all became obsessed with it 1 year even climbing the height of Everest in one night between us I can continue with the Duke of Edinburgh scheme but I was really only interested in the hiking trips and climbing
  
   by the time we were about 14 and you climbing wall that they opened in Bourne end James Jim and I would cycle there every Monday in Tuesday swinging passed Andy's house in cookham to pick up Andy and his younger brother Alex we practically owned that climbing wallIf we helped set the roots and we can control the music on the CD player that's the weekends we would often travel further afield taking the trains of climbing walls at Brunel University and even our aethusa in Kent we started joining some of the field and Trek Southern bouldering League competitions too I was not great at these and was usually just happy not to come last nevertheless I just loved climbing they're always seems to be another adventure to look towards there's nothing like having a group of friends that share your interests we hung out together when to exploring together supported each other wound each other up and had our share of arguments but always found our way back to Friendship the paths as we call each other would be the essential core  of my friendship group through the remainder of school and most of the rest of my life as time went on and we started to discover the joys of pubs the group grew with the likes of Toby joining in although he never came climbing preferring instead to throw himself downhill on a bike or a snowboard
   
   
   
   
   
   





